1. Allegheny Serviceberry (Amelanchier laevis) Growing 15 to 25 feet tall, this serviceberry is a small, shrub-like tree with dense branching and smooth, striped bark. It blooms and fruits in early summer, producing white flowers in terminal clusters before leaves appear, followed by red, purple, or black berries. As with all native species of Amelanchier, this tree is popular with fruit-eating birds. This plant is easy to grow, doing well in full shade to shade and dry to moist loams.Attributes: Shrubs, Trees, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars2. Alternate Leaf Dogwood (cornus alternifolia),Also known as Pagoda Dogwood, this small, perennial, deciduous tree or large multi-stemmed shrub typically grows 15 to 25 feet tall with distinctive layered horizontal branching. Its flowers give way to bluish-black fruits on red stalks that mature during late summer. This plant grows in partial shade, and in cool, moist, acidic, well-drained soils, though it can tolerate poor soils and clay.Attributes: Shrubs, Trees, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars3. American Basswood (Tilia americana)--- Also known as American Linden and Bee Tree, this perennial, deciduous tree grows 60 to 80 feet tall, sometimes even taller. This tree has a long trunk and wide-spreading branches that form a dense crown, and its inconspicuous but aromatic, yellow flowers frequently attract bees. It grows in full sun to shade, in dry to moist soils, preferring moist, well-drained, loam soils.Attributes: Trees, Fruit, Nuts, Butterflies, Caterpillars4. American Plum (Prunus americana)--- American Plum, or Wild Plum, is a shrub or small tree with a short trunk, broad crown, and thorny, reddish-brown branches and twigs. Its large, showy, white flowers bloom in April and May, followed by fruit that ripens to bright red in August and September and provides an important source of food for many species of birds. American Plum grows up to 35 feet tall in full sun to shade, and in moist, rich, well-drained soils.Attributes: Shrubs, Tress, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars5. Canadian Service-Berry (Amelanchier canadensis)--- Also called Shadbush and Juneberry, this shrub-like, perennial tree is relatively small, blooming white flowers and red, apple-like fruits in June. Like all native species of Amelanchier, this plant is popular with fruit-eating birds. It grows 6 to 20 feet tall in moist, well-drained soils, and in full sun to partial shade.Attributes: Shrubs, Tress, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars6. Chestnut Oak (Quercus montana)--- This tree also goes by the names Rock Chestnut Oak, Mountain Chestnut Oak, Rock Oak, and Tanbark Oak. This deciduous, perennial tree grows 65 to 145 feet tall, with reddish-brown to dark gray bark and a broad, open crown. It produces shiny, light green leaves and chestnut-brown acorns that act as a food source to birds, deer, and small mammals. Chestnut Oak grows in partial shade and in dry loamy, sandy, and rocky soils.Attributes: Tress, Fruit, Nut, Butterflies, Caterpillars7. Downy Service-Berry (Amelanchier arborea)
--- This perennial, deciduous, shrub-like tree is also known as Shadbush, Juneberry, June bush, and Shadblow. It grows 15 to 25 feet tall in full to sun to shade, and in moist, well-drained soils. In June, Downy Service-Berry bears white spring flowers, followed by sweet, reddish-purple berries that are popular with fruit-eating birds, as are all native species of Amelanchier.Attributes: Shrubs, Tress, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars8. Eastern Hop-Hornbeam (Ostrya virginiana)--- This plant goes by many names, including American, Eastern, or Woolly Hop-hornbeam, Roughbark Ironwood, Deerwood, and Leverwood. It is a perennial tree that typically grows 30 to 50 feet in height, with a trunk that looks like sinewy muscles and a rounded crown of slender, spreading branches. Catkins appear in April just before or with the appearance of new leaves, and fruits are borne in a hanging, hoplike structure. It prefers shady areas, but can also grow in the sun, and does best in rich, well-drained, dry to moist soils.Attributes: Tress, Fruit, Nuts, Butterflies, Caterpillars9. Easter Red-Cedar (Juniperus virginiana)--- Also known as Virginia Juniper, Red Juniper, Pencil Cedar, Carolina Cedar, Red Savin, and Baton Rouge, this evergreen, fragrant tree varies in color from gray-green to blue-green to light or dark green. It grows 30 to 40 feet tall typically, though it can reach up to 90 feet, with soft, silvery bark covering the single trunk. Growing in full sun to shade, and in dry soils, it is the most widely distributed eastern conifer, and is resistant to extremes of drought, heat, and cold. Pale blue fruits on female plants, combined with dense foliage make this plant excellent for birds.Attributes: Tress, Fruit, Nuts, Butterflies, Caterpillars10. Eastern Wahoo(Euonymus atropurpureus)--- Other common names for this plant include Burning bush and Spindle Tree. It is a deciduous shrub or small tree that grows up to 25 feet tall with an irregular, spreading crown and lime-green foliage that turns red in the fall. It produces small purple flowers, followed by showy, red fruit pods that split in late summer to fall, revealing crimson seeds. Eastern Wahoo grows in fertile, moist soils, and though shade tolerant, it also grows well in full sun.Attributes: Shrubs; Trees, Fruit, Butterflies, Caterpillars